stay with our top story for a moment and
the findings of the unwa report we'll
bring in Marwan bishara he's Al jazer
senior political analyst joining us from
London mwan um good to have you with us
again for you what was the takeaway
message from the report and the
findings that onor is an excellent UN
agency the very few things mentioned in
the report that are worthy of
recommendations must be made to any
agency or in fact any Ministry or any
government in the world it is uh the
nature of Institutions anywhere uh to be
evaluated to be reviewed to be audited
and recommendations to be made I think
honor has gained excellent uh credit out
of this despite the intentions of those
who wanted to audit it in order to get
bad reviews for the organization there's
some reaction coming through one notable
one is from the Secretary General Anton
teris and he's put out a relatively
short statement mwan saying that the
Secretary General accepts the
recommendations contained in Miss kona's
report to what extent do you think that
the Secretary General here is walking a
sort of diplomatic tight rope because on
one hand he wants the the unat to
support Palestinians but on the other
hand he wants to restore some of the
funding cuts that have uh taken place
recently that's a very good point and I
agree
100% I think he he is walking at I Trope
but he's also would like to put the
whole issue behind him because if you
see the whole point of raising uh the
the the problem with onor credibility on
the part of Israel and some of its
backers is is a is an exercise of
deflection just when Israel uh became
Infamous uh for its uh Slaughter in Gaza
including the killing of some 15 the own
was staff by the beginning of January
that's when Israel uh started surfacing
these rumors about some handful if you
will of Honor was staff maybe 12 among
13,000 being imp being implicated
somehow we don't know there's no
evidence in October 7 so the idea of
deflection I think now has basically
failed you could say although the media
Contin to be consumed by accusations
against hwa I think the report could put
an end at least uh the beginning of an
end we will wait for the second report
to come out whereby uh the Western
backers of Ona have no
excuse uh to
unfreeze uh the funds and to continue to
support this indispensable un
organization when it comes to these
claims that Israel had put forward that
there were Hamas members involved in the
October 7th attack this report spec this
report was not looking into these claims
but what it did reveal is that Israel
has yet to provide supporting evidence
of its claims that there were members of
Hamas involved in the October 7th
attacks why do you think that Israel has
still not provided such
evidence well most probably because it
doesn't have it uh and because as I said
the whole issue from its start was an
issue of deflection uh basically for
focusing on H instead of focusing on
Israel's unraveling genocide in plain
sight it's worth remembering that
probably the most important IE
eyewitness aside from some of our other
independent journalists is honor there
is no better eyewitness than a UN agency
with thousands upon thousands of
employees being there in the midst of
War I think they were uh the primary
eyewitness against what was happening to
their schools their students their uh
educational and other institutions and
so it was the intent of Israel to uh
basically uh plant the seed of doubt
about Ona so that Ona couldn't be a
credible witness to what is happening
the second important thing about this is
that none of it started even on October
7 if you remember the r it was Israel
and the infamous Jared Kushner in the
Trump Administration that tried to bury
onad freeing its funds and basically uh
insulting or or doing everything
possible to end its services because
ending Ona is meant to end the
Palestinian refugee question and this
remains to be the case today an attempt
at undermining hona undermine the
refugees and their rights including
their inable rights for return because
after all they were dis place in our
time of War will this report modan make
a difference in terms of restoring that
funding we know that in the US Congress
has passed a bill meaning there is no
funding for unur until 2025 and then the
UK the ruling conservatives obviously
they have a uh somewhat significant
pro-israeli Lobby so will this report
change their
minds but this is the thing right I mean
it is the reality of life that some of
the main backers of Honor are the
backers of Israel and to cleanse some of
their sins and their support of Israel
it's aparted and its occupation
oppression is by the crumbs of the table
that are set to the Palestinians I think
the answer here should be that they
should be ashamed of the themselves and
they should restore one one way or
another Biden maybe I don't know exactly
he could have executive authority to do
something about that same thing in here
in Europe but I think more importantly
the the I think those who have been
outspoken at the United Nations uh in
favor of Palestinian rights like Russia
like China like other countries who have
been quite bombastic in their support
they should step up why should it be
Germany and the United States and not
other countries we know for example that
Saudi Arabia is probably the third or
the fourth largest contributor I think
some other countries like China needs to
step up and take up their International
responsibilities they need to walk their
talk if Western countries don't then
they should step in and be the champions
of human rights in the Middle East okay
Maran bashara thank you so much for
joining us from
London make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer